Eyes, look your last.
Arms, take your
last embrace.
And, lips, oh,
you the doors of breath,
Seal with a righteous kiss.
Back off!
What meanest thou?
Spear carrier...
Who havest no lines.
You tried to kiss
my woman.
This I cannot allow.
Prepare to die!
Lucas:
Farkle,
What are you doing?
Well, now it's
"romeo and juliet
and farkle."
I play farkle.
Dude, I'm supposed
to kiss the girl.
Shakespeare said.
Who thinks the spear carrier
Should finally get
to kiss juliet?
( cheering )
Yeah, you kiss that girl,
you crazy spear carrier.
Hark!
You cometh uppeth here
And getteth kissed too.
( all cheering )
Thank you, thank you.
You're too kind, seriously.
How you doing?
I just don't understand
How we end up
in situations like this.
( applause )
( silence )
- ( claps )
- ( all clapping )
Thank you.
Thank you, farkle nation!
Farkle, come here.
Maya, don't.
He thinks he was good.
Yeah, I'm gonna fix that.
But you can't
tell him the truth.
- You'll crush him.
- Oh, I can tell him the truth.
It's you who can't
tell him the truth
because you're afraid.
I'm not afraid.
I'm nice.
You're saying I'm not nice?
No, I'm afraid to say that.
Tell him the truth.
You know farkle.
You know what
will happen if you don't.
Farkle.
You were so--
what are the best words?
He killed the play.
Those are the words.
Those are the only words.
You killed the play.
Tell him.
What?  What does she mean?
She means you
killed it, farkle.
Killed it!
Showbiz talk.
I actually I thought
I ruined the play.
If you would've told me
I ruined the play,
I would have been crushed,
but I would've believed you.
( sighs )
how could I crush
One of the best actors
Working in middle school
today?
I'm a good actor?
What if I'm better than good?
What if I'm great?
What if I'm the greatest actor
That would be sad.  Wah.
It's okay, it's okay.
I was acting.
Thanks, riley,
my public awaits.
Hello, everybody!
You can't lie to him,
riley.
You're gonna break
our little farkle.
Oh, I will not.
I didn't do anything.
This will all go away.
-  ( jazz music playing )
- ( tapping )
And I think...
You broke him.
( theme music playing )
♪ I've been waiting
♪ for a day
like this to come ♪
♪ struck like lightning
♪ my heart's beating
like a drum ♪
♪ on the edge
of something wonderful ♪
♪ face to face with changes
♪ what's it all about?
Life is crazy ♪
♪ but I know
I can work it out ♪
♪ 'cause I got you
to live it with me ♪
♪ I feel all right,
I'm gonna take on the world ♪
♪ light up the stars,
I've got some pages to turn ♪
♪ I'm singing "go-o-o"
♪ oh oh oh oh
♪ take on the world
♪ take on the world,
take on the world ♪
♪ take on the world.
- Nice locket.
- You likey?
If history's about discovering
the truth of what happened
in the past,
We spend some time
finding out what truth is.
Where'd you  get
the nice locket?
Shh, I come here
to learn.
( both laugh )
All through history,
People have suffered
consequences
For telling the truth.
- Is that real gold?
- Don't know.
Doesn't matter.
They all suffered dearly
For having the courage
To tell the truth.
So sometimes
it's better not to?
But aren't
there consequences
for that too, sir?
Yes, there are, mr. Friar.
But in my experience
with the universe,
No matter what you do,
The truth
always finds a way
of coming out.
( bell rings )
( students chatter )
So... Where'd you
get the locket?
- France.
- You were in France?
Si, senor.
You didn't go to France
You would have
brought me back
a croissant.
- Bing.
- Ooh.
Piping hot.
Wait a minute.
Where did you
really get this?
I found it on the street.
Bleah!
Come on,
where'd you get the locket?
My father sent it to me.
- He did?
- You don't believe me?
- Did you just tell me?
- I just told you.
- Then I believe you.
- So this is over?
I do, however,
have one question
for the locket.
Where'd you get the maya?!
You don't believe
my father sent this to me?
Why don't you
just tell me?
Why don't you just
call me a liar?
tell me the truth?
Oh, you think
that's important?
Did you think farkle
was good in the play?
( melodramatic gasp )
I want to skip ahead
in your truth lesson.
Is it okay to tell
a little white lie
- To spare
somebody's feelings?
- No.
My feelings?
- Then always truth.
Well, what do we have here?
- Chicken.
- I'll tell you
right now, topanga,
This was never a chicken.
Why don't you
just eat it, honey.
I'm looking forward to hearing
what you think of it after.
Oh, great teller of the truth,
How you're going
to get out of this one.
( cracking )
Psst, what'd you get?
S'ghetti and meatballs.
Ooh, yum.
Yum that!
Why this me?!
Why yum him?!
All right, fine,
I'll eat it.
Here we go.
Have we prayed?
Have we prayed
As a family?
We haven't done
that in a while.
Go ahead, pray.
Oh, I'll pray.
The world
is a beautiful place...
Full of many beautiful things.
Look what she did
to your chicken!
Eat your dinner, honey.
Okay.
I'll see you soon.
( sighs, laughs )
Well, what do you think?
Um, you know,
from eating this chicken,
I'll tell you right now
how this chicken died.
It ate this chicken.
You know, daddy,
sometimes when I don't
want to eat something,
Mommy feeds it to me
like it was an airplane.
( mimics motor whir )
And I like that.
That's very sweet, auggie,
But daddy's
a little too old
For mommy to feed him.
( chuckles )
( mimics motor whirring )
There's a serious pigeon
following me.
Hey, here's a new thing.
Where'd you get the locket?
He's a very sneaky pigeon,
but I'm onto him.
Because it's gold,
it's expensive,
And my curiosity
gets the better of me.
So I ducked behind the tree
to fake out the pigeon.
And you know
who came over?
A squirrel.
Because I was already
in my thing with the pigeon.
I need to know
if you're stealing things.
You don't think
my dad sends me stuff?
Maya, you've cried to me
Because your dad
doesn't send you stuff.
Sometimes I walk
around the village
And I pass stores
and I look in windows
At things I know
I'll never have.
So one day, I saw this
Sitting in
a lost-and-found basket.
Do you think it's right
that somebody
Loses something
so beautiful
Who knows?  I don't
have a criminal mind.
I don't think
like you people.
I walked by the window
for months.
Nobody claimed
the locket, okay?
It sat there like
a kid that has no--
Like an orphan.
So I claimed it.
It's mine now.
It's not.
You took something that
doesn't belong to you.
How come you don't
tell farkle the truth,
But you have no trouble
telling me?
( warbles )
And you stop judging me.
Hey, my father tells
my mother the truth,
Even when he knows
She's gonna shove
a chicken in his face.
- Sorry I missed it.
- Yep, I was thinking about you.
- Thanks.
- 'cause I love you.
Then why do you want
to end up in the slammer?
Here we go.
You won't do well
in the slammer.
I will so.
You won't pack right.
And you'll forget
to bring shower shoes
And you'll take
somebody else's
From the lost-and-found.
And I think...
You're gonna get
toe fungus!
And I think you deserve
to get toe fungus
Because they're
not your shower shoes.
( cries )
they're not!
That's adorable.
I think you're a thief.
That's not.
You think I'm afraid
to tell people the truth?
I'm not,
and I now await
your praise.
Maya?
I got something
to say to you.
♪ I can't hear you
♪ baddada dadaa dadaa...
I'm talking to you.
( singing nonsense words )
( singing continues )
♪ da da dadaa
♪ whata whata whata,
waa waa waa ♪
( singing continues )
♪ and...
Go.
Whether or not
you're a thief,
Or not a thief,
Or you stole the locket
or you didn't,
It doesn't belong to you.
It belongs to somebody else.
And you have to tell
the truth about it
Because you
are upsetting the universe.
And the universe is going
to have the truth
come out anyway.
When are you gonna
tell the truth to farkle?
I hardly think the universe
is upset with me
For being nice to farkle.
I mean, what could
possibly go wrong there?
Hey, chess club,
You can move king's knight
to bishop six
And then you can eat it!
'cause I quit the chess club
'cause I'm an actor,
'cause riley said so.
Hey, chemistry club,
you know what you get
When you put sodium
and chlorine together?
You're a bunch
of losers!
- Farkle!
- Riley.
You changed my life.
The farkle you knew
is gone.
I am now...
( dramatically )
farkle!
♪ whata whata what
♪ what could possibly
go wrong? ♪
♪ whata whata
what could possibly
go wrong? ♪
I'm looking at this book.
It's a cookbook
about chickens.
You want to do this?
I do.
Kiss kiss?
Nope nope.
Want to see
where this goes.
Me too.  So...
Topanga, look at
all these recipes
About chicken
with pictures.
Fried chicken,
barbecued chicken...
- Uh-huh, right, got it.
- Orange chicken,
chicken a la king.
- Sure, right.
- Chicken marsala,
teriyaki chicken.
- Great, sure.
- General tso's chicken,
chicken tikka masala!
- Your point?
- Well...
Topanga, I think
you must admit
I have been very careful
to span the gamut
Of many international
chicken selections.
If you stop right now,
Nothing bad
will happen to you.
- Braised chicken...
- Uh-huh.
- Right, sure.
- Chicken cordon bleu,
chicken pot pie.
Auggie, you've been
watching us, right?
Your thoughts
on the subject?
Good luck.
Look, honey, it's auggie's
big book of dinosaurs.
Look at that.  Wow.
Look, and right here
on page...
Nine is your chicken.
It's a pterodactyl.
Now it says here
it died out
Over 65 million years ago.
That might explain
why your chicken
Was a little dry.
Oh.
This is nice.
Oh, are we taking
a walkie?
Yeah, we're taking
a walkie.
You see, honey,
my truth is that
From the moment I met you...
I adored you.
And there is nothing
you could do
Or say
that could ever
change that.
You're locking me
out of the house now,
aren't you?
( excitedly )
that's right!  That's exactly
what I'm gonna do!
-  ( knocks on window )
- maya?
Nope, me.
( sighs )
told more truths,
Did ya?
Well, the thing I probably
should have mentioned
Is I've never understood
the universe at all.
The universe is upside down.
I lied to farkle,
he loves me.
I told maya the truth,
She went out the window.
Upside down!
You here me?
( creaking )
Hey.
Well, now she's back.
Maybe it's
not as upside down
as you think.
It's a nice locket, maya.
Thanks, mr. Matthews.
It looks like someone else's
expensive gold locket.
Maybe it is.
But, you know,
I don't think
- That matters
to maya at all.
- You don't?
You know, it's an interesting
thing about lockets.
It's usually
what's in the inside
That matters most
to people.
Isn't that right, maya?
Yeah, okay.
Please don't tell anyone
This is how I live
in my own house.
What's inside
the locket, maya,
That's so important
to you?
Who is this family?
I don't know.
( breathes deeply )
a father,
A mother
And a little girl.
I just like that
they're all together.
I'm keeping it.
Oh, boy.
She's at the front door too.
It's like there's
two of her.
- ( mimics motor whir )
- ( cory screams )
So what do we do now?
Just sit here or what?
Hey, dad.
Can you tell me
Why I kind of think
trying to help farkle
May have been wrong
And maybe maya
should keep the locket?
I should?
Maybe.
Is it me
that's upside down?
You know what, girls?
The universe is the most
Confusing place
you'll ever live.
But if you listen carefully,
You'll find out
that it's paying attention
And that it cares about you.
Is that the truth?
It's the only one
I'm still sure of.
Hey, auggie,
is that for me, buddy?
I made it for you.
Oh, auggie,
thank you so much.
Thank you.
Look at this, ooh.
This looks good.
It's-- it's cold s'ghetti.
I know it's better warmer,
But I don't know
how to do that.
Auggie, I appreciate
That you did
anything for me at all.
You said that
very nice.
Why didn't you say it
that way to mom?
What?  But all I did
was tell mom the truth.
Then why do you get
cold s'ghetti?
Both: Whoa.
Whoa.
Auggie, are you saying
The truth doesn't matter
As much as
how you treat people?
Auggie, are you saying
that the truth does matter,
But you should tell it
to people warmly?
Maya:  Auggie,
Are you saying
that the universe
Pays attention to me?
Do you people realize
That I'm only
this many?
Farkle, I need
to talk to you.
I've been looking
all over for you.
Farkle.
Farkle's gone.
He gave up the chess club.
He gave up the chemistry club.
- What happened?
- You happened.
You told me I was good.
Well, I just auditioned
for the next play.
Are you gonna be
in the next play?
I'm not even allowed
to watch the next play.
I'm sorry you stink.
I'm sorry
I could never hurt you.
I'm sorry you stink.
- I heard you!
- Well, it was very important.
( sighs )
You made me think
I was this great actor.
You filled me up
with confidence that I was
really special.
You made me think
I could go after something
totally unrealistic.
Farkle...
Thank you.
Mmmm...
Mwuah!
Well...
That happened.
Is it over?
- Can we talk about this?
- No.
Because that was
your first kiss
And it was with farkle.
- He missed.
- Still counts.
Now for the rest
of your life
When people ask you,
"hey, riley,
Who was your first kiss?"
you're gonna have to say...
Eyes, look your last.
Oh, yeah!
Arms, take your last embrace.
And, lips, oh,
you the doors of breath,
Seal with a righteous kiss.
- Hi.
How long you been here?
Yeah, I saw the whole thing.
I just can't believe
that little guy
Stole my moment...
Again.
You thought that
was your moment?
No.
Oh.
My moment
Will be  my  moment.
( sighs )
( giggles )
How you doing?
I like that we end up
in situations like this.
You're doing
the right thing,
Returning the locket
to the store.
I guess so.
Maya, I know how much
you want a locket
With a family inside it.
You want the truth?
My father hasn't sent me
anything in a long time.
And the universe is
probably much too busy
To notice whether or not
I'm doing the right thing.
Hi.
I think this belongs to you.
Oh my gosh.
I've been looking
all over for that.
Thank you.
Never lose this.
A cool universe, huh?
( tapping )
( sighs )
hi, auggie.
Don't blow this.
Hi.
How you doing, honey?
So...
You remember that time
you were really mad at me?
You mean right now?
Yeah.  Yeah, that one.
Listen, can I tell you
the truth about something?
It doesn't really matter
what you make for dinner.
It's that you are
in our house with me.
Thank you for being
There's nowhere else
I'd rather be.
Kiss kiss?
Because you love me?
Yes.
And because
it quiets you down.